so what we have here is an oyster which is a
bivalve which means that there is two shells to it
there's a flat top and there's what we call a bowl
so we want to make sure that the bowl is downward
so that when we do open it that the juices stay in
now what holds the two shells together is called
the abductor muscle and it sits right in the
center here and the more we try and force it open
the tighter it holds so it's going to take a
little bit of force you also want to make sure
that they're alive and how do you know they're
alive if there is a bit of a space and they're not
closing when you tap them that means that they're
dead so this one is alive it's it's nice and tight
and in order to open it I'm going to use what's
called an oyster knife this is a very strong knife
you can see it's very thick with a good handle on
it and so what I need to do is just put my towel
on top now this can be dangerous in case it slips
i want to hit the towel not my hand and again make
sure that the bowl is on the bottom if not all
of the juices fall out and that's not what we're
trying to do we're trying to keep all of those
juices so we need to get the tip of our knife
into that little space inside and then with some
force pushing inward and twisting simultaneously
you just want to break that abductor muscle which
is what we did there and then again being very
careful I want to just cut the upper part of the
abductor muscle from the upper shell leaving as
much in the bowl as possible sometimes the shell
cracks just be very careful that you don't get any
of this loose bits in there and then you want
to just take them all out wipe your knife move
the oyster over to the side here you can see it's
in a bowl sometimes that bowl won't set perfectly
so what we'll do is we'll put that on some crushed
ice but before I can serve it I need to loosen the
bottom of the abductor muscle as well and there
you go now it's nice and loose the only other
thing that this may need is a little bit of
lemon juice if you like or some tabasco sauce